# Project2_CIVE202

The Nebraska Department of Transportation (NDOT) commissioned the development of a Python-based calculation tool built upon the framework of the provided Excel spreadsheet. Our team successfully translated and automated the logic found within the “Mix Design” tab. The new application guides users through a clear, step-by-step process for entering material properties and design criteria. Upon completion, the program generates an automated weight chart for one cubic yard of concrete. To confirm the reliability and accuracy of the system, four representative concrete mix scenarios were analyzed using the fully automated process.

USER GUIDE:
1. To see our project schedule and when everything was completed and how it was organized, download the "Project #2 gantt chart (1).xlsx" file.
2. To see the goals, tasks, and deliverables for this project, look at the "Project 2 SOW.pdf" file.
3. All of our code is found in the "Project_2_Final (1).ipnyb" file. This code completely translates the "Mix Design" tab in excel to python code. In our code, we have tested 4 different real and relevant concrete designs to test our code and to prove it works the way that it should. To use this code to evaluate future mix designs, you must change the variables to whatever you would like your concrete mix design testing numbers to be. The variables to change are as follows: "cement_A", "fly_ash_B", "silica_fume_C", "other_scm_D", "wc_ratio_E", "air_content_F", "percent_fine_G", "percent_coarse_H", "percent_other_I", "sg_cement_J", "sg_fly_ash_K", "sg_silica_fume_L", "sg_other_scm_M", "sg_fine_N", "sg_coarse_O", and "sg_other_P". If you are not sure what the code does, please refer to the Annotated Code Document ("Project2ACD.xlsx").
4. To see our complete methods and how we did this project, along with a complete discussion of our tested concrete mix designs, please refer to the "Project 2 Final Report.pdf".
